PEP 825: Add "removing ordering information" to rejected ideas (#60)
wheelnext/peps: peps/pep-0825.rst

naming.

Removing ordering information from wheel files
----------------------------------------------

The specification proposes that all the data needed to order wheel
variants is stored within the variant metadata (the `default
priorities`_ dictionary), that is stored in every wheel file and copied
into the `index-level metadata`_ file. It has been pointed out that this
information is not meaningful for a single wheel and it may be a source
of contention since multiple wheels can technically contain inconsistent
information. Therefore, it was proposed that the dictionary is removed
from wheel files and kept at index level only.

While the premise is correct, we do not believe that storing additional
information in the wheel is a problem, and it has a few important
advantages:

1. It ensures that the complete variant metadata needed to install
   wheels is stored in a single location, and the index-level metadata
   can be generated from variant wheels without additional input data.
   Notably, this empowers indexes to generate it automatically without

>    requiring any additional client-side logic.

Reviewer: How about "without requiring publishers to upload an additional file" to be more explicit? The average reader might not know exactly what "client-side logic" means here.

2. It enables selecting across multiple wheels without having to
   generate the index-level metadata file first, which can be useful
   when installing from local directories. The index-level metadata file

>    remains a cache file rather than a first-order data source.

Reviewer: I'd say this point that the JSON file is a cache rather than first-order data source is good to put higher up, it's a separate point to make about the design that I think is fairly strong.

naming.

Removing ordering information from wheel files
----------------------------------------------

The specification proposes that all the data needed to order wheel
variants is stored within the variant metadata (the `default
priorities`_ dictionary). This data is expected to originate from a
common source per project (a subsequent PEP will propose an integration
within ``pyproject.toml`` file) and to be copied into every variant
wheel at build time, and afterwards into the `index-level metadata`_
file.

On the discussion thread concerning this PEP, `Paul Moore has made an

> extensive argument regarding the data model

Reviewer: I think the link will serve its purpose without explicitly naming Paul here, and that might be perceived as a little more impersonal. I don't think it's common to name the person making the argument in a PEP (sorry if I suggested this thing, not sure if I did):
```suggestion
On the discussion thread concerning this PEP, `an extensive argument
regarding the data model was made
```

<https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-825-wheel-variants-package-format-split-from-pep-817/106196/111>`__.

> Essentially, Paul is saying that this data becomes a wheel-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Essentially, the argument was that this data becomes a wheel-level
```

property that, when inserted in a particular wheel, is saying something
about "other wheels". We do not believe this is the case. Rather, the

> data is project-level metadata which, which is copied into the wheel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data is project-level metadata which is copied into the wheel.
```

Similarly to other project metadata, there is no reference to other
wheels. And even if, for example, variant wheels using some of the
specified namespaces are missing from a release completely, that is

> fine, nothing depends on specific other wheels existing.

Reviewer: Suggested rephrase for clarity:
```suggestion
wheels. For example, the ordering data can specify namespaces for which
no variant wheels exist in a particular release; nothing in the format
depends on the presence of specific other wheels.
```

Furthermore, this design specifically ensures that the index-level
metadata file is a cache rather than a first-order data source. Since
all the data is stored in the wheels:

1. It is possible to generate the index-level metadata file based on

>    available wheels alone, wthout any additional input data. Notably,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   available wheels alone, without any additional input data. Notably,
```
